hey guys welcome to my channel I have a
guest today her name is Eva actually I'm
her guest because we're in her office
she works for air V&D and today we're
gonna talk about how you can get into a
big American company as an international
applicant how to get your visa sponsors
and how do you work how do you feel like
working in such a cool company like
Airbnb so if you're interested police
continue watching this video
[Music]
back to San Francisco - mate
the first time when I visited Airbnb
office was back in 2015 and this
building was shared with Pinterest
conquer some other companies and there
were 500 employees now how many do you
have four and a half thousand surround
that around the world oh my god and they
have the whole office now and they
occupy another building as well and
Peggy another one
Oh two more oh wow I've only been to two
of them Wow and they also have like
office in Europe Wow
[Music]
so you are an international student you
moved from Belarus to Canada and you
somehow ended up working for Airbnb tell
us how is that possible so yeah that is
indeed correct I was brought and raised
in Belarus and after graduating high
school in Belarus I moved to Canada to
do my bachelor's degree at University of
Waterloo in Canada and then after
graduating I ended up here in San
Francisco in the States working for
Airbnb and while I was working in Canada
actually did an internship here at
Airbnb so partially that is the reason
why I decided to come here full-time
afterwards are you gonna be surprised
she works as and I'm gonna make a boss
here because you have to guess what she
does it's Airbnb you would never guess
she's actually a back-end engineer right
background banking song you're not even
not fronting like fronting no she's a
back-end engineer this is a real listing
like everything here at Airbnb like
every conference room is a real listing
and you can actually sit here and have
your conference call oh it's a little
too small
so you studied Chemical Engineering
right you Iraq started to study Chemical
Engineering but somehow then you realize
that coding is your fashion tell us how
did you get this engineering education
finally yeah for sure so as marina has
mentioned I did study Chemical
Engineering and part of the reason why I
studied Chemical Engineering is because
I was really really into chemistry when
I was in high school and I decided to do
something more applicable with chemistry
so I picked a chemical engineering
degree however one of the amazing things
that I'm really grateful for about my
universities that we had a call program
where every other semester we had to do
an internship to graduate it was a
requirement it wasn't optional and
because of the those internship
experiences I actually realized that
chemical engineering was not something
that I saw myself doing after graduating
I think it was in second year university
when I finished my second internship as
a chemical engineer I was like yeah this
is not something that I see myself June
but at the same time I have so many
ideas of what I could potentially be
interested in and I was totally lost
it's honestly I was so jealous of people
who just had to figure it out cuz I was
like yeah I could try this and that but
it's all time commitment to figure it
out but luckily I had friends that were
in software engineering and computer
science and did all these amazing
internships in Silicon Valley at the
time I actually have never thought that
I would be interested in coding because
in fact when I took Chemical Engineer
and programming classes I absolutely
hated them like my least favorite
classes ever but so I was actually
really close minded to the idea of
trying programming courses but then some
of my friends convinced me being like
yeah but just try taking an online
course who knows maybe you'll like it
and then finally I was converted to
being like okay I'll try a course and
then I signed up for codecademy x' web
development course and HTML CSS pretty
easy introductory course that gives you
an instant output of what you're
actually coding that is very gratifying
for the course and I was like oh this is
actually not as bad as I thought and now
I'm thinking that it's the problems that
I was solving in chemical engineering
that I was not interested in and that's
why I hated that programming course so
much that's that's why I think
internship is really important like
trying to work during your course and
this is why I also always advocate for
Canada as well because if even if you
don't like a master's program there you
do a semester of setting semester
working it semester of studying these
are the Col programs first you get
real-life work experience and you
understand what you like second thing
you can earn some money and what you
manage to write you only pay for like a
year and your parents yeah if you pay
for a year and a half and the rest like
three three point five years of
education she was able to support
herself which is great for like
expensive countries like Canada for us
definitely that is actually an amazing
thing about Canada despite the fact that
he's already cheaper education in Canada
is way cheaper than the education in the
States but the ability of earning money
while I was studying was so key to me
being able to support myself and support
my education
this is Loomis desk and you can tell
that she's just like me because how many
supplements does she have here maybe ten
how much time do you spend here I spent
about nine to ten hours here okay Wow
coming up at about 9:00 in the morning
and I try to leave most likely 6:30 or
so but you have food here right so you
can have breakfast lunch dinner yes I
have all my three meals here usually I'm
not like I'm grabbing dinner oh you
don't have to cool and you have sports
here as well right I've seen yoga oh we
do have yoga in the other building I
used to go I don't go as much anymore
just go to a separate gym we don't have
a gym in the building because we're so
community oriented where we're told that
there's so many gyms in the neighborhood
which is support the community that's
true what about your holidays how many
yeah so we're very lucky because our
company is given a gift to employees
every year where we're closing down for
two weeks during Christmas so that's
holidays that is completely set in stone
and then we have 14 days of PTO which
actually comes down to about three weeks
counting weekends moving back to the
story I tried out online courses and I
actually enjoyed it and I decide to
basically take a gamble and try to get
an internship as a software engineer to
see as marina said it's very important
to try out the actual real world field
to see if I liked it or not and I
studied really hard for about a year and
I ended up getting an internship at Yelp
and Silicon Valley in San Francisco and
that's how I made my transfer for you to
understand even if you're studying in
Canada or you said in India or you study
in Brazil it doesn't matter with the
American immigration system
you're still an immigrant there are no
privileges and they still radio
according to whatever rules they have so
you need to find a company yourself you
need to get their permission to sponsor
your j-1 visa you need to apply for a
j-1 visa this is not something like
better that our Canadian students are
privileged for
what I love about huge companies like
Airbnb they have amazing offices and
every single floor has at least two
cafeterias the best thing about Airbnb
what you see here is not the full
selection but this is like kombucha
lemonade
green tea and if you go to the main
canteen they have 21 sorts of kombucha
and this is the best this is pistachio
and strawberry this like guys
I've tried maybe like hundred source of
kombucha in my life and this is the best
so how did you do that yeah that is
super true you have to hustle you have
to hustle really hard I hustled a lot I
was reaching out to everyone I know I
was cold email in so many companies
there is this website I think it's
called producthunt
and there is angeles and four different
startups in the area because i wasn't
hoping that a big company will take me
someone with no experience someone who
was self-taught so I was cold emailing
all these founders of small startups
saying how passionate I am about
learning and about their products and
that's basically house trying how I was
trying to get my foot on in the door and
I was trying to leverage my network as
much as I could I was emailing
recruiters on LinkedIn they're trying to
have someone look at my resume as well
as applying in traditional ways on
companies websites but to be honest I
think that hustling and trying to reach
out to people directly is the key to
getting your foot in the door and will
work what worked with Yelp was it like a
connection that you had or you just
applied through the website it was
actually a funny story it was a
combination of two things it was a
combination of being a hustler and
hustling and it was a combination of my
university too so as I said my
university has a co-op program so they
do hire a lot of people from Silicon
Valley so the name is quite well-known
and I actually saw that on the love my
LinkedIn profile a recruiter from Yelp
just looked at my profile which I
thought was super random because I had
nothing related to computer science or
tack on my profile results
uncle engineering but I was like oh my
god this is an opportunity yeah I have
to message this person despite the fact
I have not nothing on my profile I
messaged him being like hey so I saw you
looked at my profile I know there is
nothing computer science related on it
but I'm like I really am interested in
internship opportunities so here's my
resume and he actually looked at it and
he responded and he was like oh I'm
actually at your University's campus
next week do you want to meet up Wow and
I was like no I'm actually in Germany
because I was in Germany on exchange at
the time so I said but how about we
connect over Skype and then he's like
yeah I just like message me I'll get
back to you when I'm done with
recruiting season and I actually was not
ready to interview at the time so I
didn't message human here obviously did
not message me back either because he
had no interest message but three months
later what when I was really prepared I
messaged him being like hey remember me
I am still very interested in internship
opportunities here's my resume and he
responded because he remembered me and
he's like do you want to do a call next
week and that's how I got my foot in the
door
[Music]
also how many companies have you reached
out to oh a lot like hundred for sure
because as I said I was reaching out to
so many little startups as well as yeah
so remember it's it's all like the
numbers game if you reach out to ten
companies you get nothing
don't just continue sitting who yourself
is just go on and reach out to more
companies like a hundred yeah it's a
good number and you will definitely get
something at least the idea where to go
next definitely you have to be proactive
otherwise I mean there's so many other
people competing with you at the same
time
yeah exactly after Yelp you went back to
Canada and then you applied for an
internship at Airbnb right that's
correct yeah I had another internship
semester so I had to get an internship
somewhere and I was again applying to a
lot of companies but I was a little more
selective because I already had a big
name on my resume so I was feeling more
yeah yeah actually was that also random
how I got an interview at Airbnb because
a friend of mine connected me to undress
and Horovitz so a 16z recruiter yeah the
C fund and they have a lot of portfolio
companies there being these one of them
and they connects their portfolio
companies with talent and that recruiter
connected me with a recruiter at Airbnb
that's why I got an interview at Airbnb
that's a great tip which is disgusted
during the live stream that we had with
Vlad and he just graduated from Harvard
and he said a lot of graduates actually
get jobs through VCS
I'm gonna talk a lot about networking on
my second channel by the way search of
Silicon Valley girl I know each other
yeah yeah the link will be below
[Music]
tell me how this room yeah so this room
is the original is a prototype of the
original Airbnb apartment where the
founders started Airbnb this room is
called brauch because the apartment was
on Rao Street and actually it's still
there on route Street and on the floor
of the living room of the Strauss
apartment were the first people who were
living on air Beauty Wow this is how the
room looks like and two guys Brian and
Joe right and they were like how do I
make some money like because rent in San
Francisco is so expensive maybe we can
make some extra money by just blowing up
the mattress and just renting it out and
this is how I really started and I think
there was a conference that was going on
in San Francisco and they realized
they're gonna have the demand because
the hotels were fully booked
Wow this is so cool so and then after
this internship they actually invited
you to work full-time right yeah so it's
a very common practice here in the
valley and I think in a lot of other
industries too too bad potential
full-time candidates based on their
internship at the company and it's
actually very safe too because you you
as a company as an employer got to work
with that person you saw their work and
then if they liked it they give you a
full-time offer and that's what happened
to me I got a full-time offer at Airbnb
and then after thinking about other
companies and other options I decided to
accept it and come back what kind of
visa have this sponsored yeah so I went
on j1 Hunter graduation actually you can
do a j-1 visa after graduating
University because I wasn't eligible to
apply for an h-1b in that year because
you have to have a diploma in April and
I do have to have like a bachelor's in
order to be eligible for an h1 exactly
so I wasn't j1 for a year would be Cabot
that they're gonna sponsor me for an
h-1b for the following year and I was
lucky to get it
Congrats yeah the chance is like well
people say the chances to get h-1b if
you don't have masters from an American
University it's 30 percent yeah you're
very lucky but if you have masters from
an American University your chances go
up to 80 percent
[Music]
if your goal is to work for an American
company first hustle definitely second
Network third if you have opportunity to
get education in the States but if not
like Canada is also close and it gets
you chances to you know work during your
studies and also gets and some work
experience here in the States
can you give an advice to somebody who
is international willing to work in a
big American corporation and doesn't
know where it just starts yeah for sure
I would say Google is your friend there
is a ton of you resources I I take Quora
is an amazing resource that I found a
lot of information from it's a forum
where people actually people who know
about the field and who know about the
question that you're asking can give you
advice and information and I found a lot
of useful stuff these are related and
jobs related you can type in any
question like anything third there's
almost everything that surprising yeah
it is and then just reach out to people
you will be surprised at how willing
people are to help actually you might
think that oh that person will never
respond to you but if you're different
if you show your passion if you show
your interest in wanting to learn or
wanting something and you can help them
potential in some way which is very
important - you will be surprised at how
many people can actually respond to you
and I would say just try to find
resources with respect to your
particular field of websites that you
should be reading maybe articles maybe
different forums and interact with
people people is a huge advantage to
trying to get your foot in the door
your English is your number-one priority
if it's not advanced yet so my advice
would be if you can travel to Canada for
example take it to three week course if
you can try with San Francisco take a
language course in the morning and then
use the afternoon to connect with
companies to attend meetups to meet
people the link will be below link
Richard comm we're happy to help you
with not only language courses but also
higher education like admissions process
yeah you can book everything like all of
the schools you can book them online
with a discount because our prices are
cheaper than looking directly with
school and everything is online and this
is basically what I do what is that this
is my business this is my company guys
thank you so much for watching this
video up to the very end if you've
enjoyed this content please like this
video and support us with your comments
if you're not yet subscribed to this
channel subscribe and if you're willing
to study and work abroad
check out linguist trip comm and we're
gonna help you make your dreams come
true thank you so much and thank you so
much for thank you for an amazing tour
an amazing day bye guys